# Data Science Portfolio
This page summarises my data science portfolio. Please do get in touch with me if you have any questions.

* [Road Traffic Accidents in the UK (2005-2015)](https://github.com/aidenaslam/UK_Road_Accidents): the UK government is consistently looking for new ways to improve road safety. This project utilised recurrent neural networks and clustering to predict the number of road accidents and help identify the areas of improvement needed in road safety in the UK. 

* [Predicting Heart Disease in Patients](https://github.com/aidenaslam/Predicting-Heart-Disease-in-Patients): Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the number one cause of death globally and in 2016 they represented 31% of all global deaths [1]. In this study, the Framingham Heart Study data [2] was sourced in order to construct a model that can accurately classify whether a person will develop coronary heart disease (CHD) or not.

* [Classifying Smartphone Prices](https://github.com/aidenaslam/Classifying-Smartphone-Prices): In today’s competitive technology sector, it is very difficult for smaller brands to compete for market share in the smartphone industry. In 2019 the top 5 vendors of smartphones (Sasmsung, Apple, Huawei, Xiaomi and OPPO) had a combined market share reaching over 70%. Thus, this project aimed to classify the price range of a given smartphone based on its features. The application of such a model could then be used to help provide smaller brands with a better idea on how to provide consumers with an affordable smartphone with features in-line with the most up-to-date technology which in turn would increase sales. 

* [Predicting Flight Delays: A Case Study of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL)](https://github.com/aidenaslam/Predicting-Flight-Delays-A-Case-Study-of-Hartsfield-Jackson-Atlanta-International-Airport-ATL-): The US aviation industry in the last decade has experienced an ever-increasing demand of passengers. This is requiring airports to evaluate their current strategies and be able to adapt to changing industrial environments to not only provide a better service towards airlines and passengers, but to maximise profit through efficient operation. One way to achieve this is by efficiently organising and handling airport capacity. The aim of this study was therefore, to utilise deep learning to accurately predict the arrival delay of flights at ATL in the US to assist with airport capacity planning for the ever-increasing passenger demand.
